### Graphing: Spatial Distributions <img style="float: right; padding-left: 10px; padding-right: 10px" src="screenshots/plotTS_example_1_black.png" width="1000"/>

This group of plots is characteristically different from all previous
plots which describe spatially aggregated data through time. The
distributions plots show how data vary across space by way of
histograms, density curves, and stripcharts (using boxplots and/or
points). Similar to the variability plots, several options change
dynamically based on the subtype of plot selected. The two main
categories of plots are histograms/density curves and stripcharts.

### Special note

The name of this plot tab will eventually be simplified to
`Distributions`. I have plans for adding more variables to the app
beyond the current climate variables, not all of which are spatially
explicit in the same sense as the these. Some variables are at a
spatially aggregated scale. As such there is not distibution of values
across space to graph here. In fact, there are not even statistics such
as the mean, standard deviation, or 95th percentile value across space
for the other plots in the app previously discussed. These other
variables have distributions of course, but they vary along another
dimension, namely across simulations.

Specifically, I will be adding fire and vegetation model simulation
outputs to the app. Although a variable such as total area burned in a
given geographic region does not vary across space like the spatially
explicit temperature and precipitation data already contained in the
app, it does vary across simulations. Each simulation represents a
realization from a random process.

In the case of these variables, specific statistics as well as
distributions will be available, identical to those available for the
climate variables. The only difference is they will refer to difference
across simulation space rather than geographical space directly.
However, they still represent spatially explicit processes, but
aggregated and overlain in presentation. Though directly comparable in
many useful ways, it is still important to note the distinctions between
the dimensions over which different variables are distributed.

#### X-axis

When plotting histograms and/or density curves, the x-axis must be a
numeric variable such as temperature or precipitation. The y-axis is the
density of course. When plotting stripcharts, the x-axis options are
similar to those for other plot types. Numeric data values are once
again along the y-axis.

#### Grouping

This is similar to grouping for other plots.

#### Faceting <img style="float: right; padding-left: 10px; padding-right: 10px" src="screenshots/plotTS_group_white.png"/>

This is similar to faceting for other plots.

#### Plot type

When a numeric data variable is selected as the x-axis variable, a
histogram or density curve are available. When other variables are
selected, stripchart is available. When graphing a stripchart, there is
an option to overlay points which is not applicable to the histograms or
density curves (unless I add a rug plot option later).

Due to the potential number of bootstrapped samples across multiple
combinations of factors, it is highly advised to thin the sample for
plotting clarity (as well as speed). In fact this is so crucial that I
will probably remove the slider bar for this option and require it,
forcing a sample thinning to occur automatically inside the plot
function invisible to the user. Once this change is made, a percent
thinning will be indicated somewhere.

#### Checkbox Options <img style="float: right; padding-left: 10px; padding-right: 10px" src="screenshots/plotTS_colors_white.png"/>

Options unique to the variability plots include Similar to the
variability plots, boxplots are also available here under certain
conditions. This option is available when the plot subtype is a
stripchart because of the correspondence of axes and information
plotted. It does not make sense when histograms or densities are
selected.

Points may be drawn for the stripchart but not for histograms or
densities (again, unless I add a rug plot overlay). Lines may be drawn
over histograms and densities, but not between strips along a
stripchart. Histograms and density curves maintain their standard
orientation whereas stripcharts may swap axes to alternate between
displaying vertical or horizontal strips. Other options are similar to
those found in other plots.
